Type coercion.
If there's one thing that's gonna make you pull out all your hair out of frustration.
It's type caution if you Google type origin in JavaScript and looked at some of the posts you're going
to see a lot of people angry at some of the funky things that JavaScript does and we're going to talk
about that and I'm going to just give you a brief overview of it because it does get really convoluted
complex and it's something that you should understand and know what it is but you don't have to know
every single detail because most of the tricky parts.
Well you shouldn't be using it in your code because it's confusing.
So what is type cause.
It's something like this one equals two string one and that equals two.
True you see type caution means that when the appearance that is the things to the left and to the right
of the operator are different types.
That is no end string type one of them will be converted into an equivalent value by the JavaScript
engine.
So the JavaScript engine is going to say 1 equals to string 1.
I think you mean number one.
So it's going to do this for us and compare number one to number one now based on the definition type
caution means the language converting a certain type to another type.
Let me ask you a question do all languages have type caution.
What do you think yes they do.
Because we always need to convert types between programs to do things in memory.
Different types look completely different than what we type.
Write the number five in actual physical memory.
Oh my computer is represented in once in zero and all languages do this.
So there is some sort of type caution at different levels of the stack.
It just so happens that JavaScript has an especially heavy type cause in nature to it because it's dynamically
type which is why it does this.
Let's go back to the example in JavaScript type caution happens when you use the double equal double
equal sign simply means compare the two values and if they have different types try to well coerce one
into the same type.
If we go back and do a string here and I do three equals and I run I get false because three equals
in JavaScript means compare to values.
But don't try and curse the values be explicit with your comparison and do exactly what I tell you.
So is there ever a time you should just use two equals instead of three equals.
Mm hmm.
I'll say that.
No there isn't.
Some people may argue that double equal can actually have some interesting applications where we coerce
something and we do some sort of checking really quickly but it's not predictable code right.
It can be confusing.
It could really be a gotcha and trick some people so always use three equals instead of two.
Now type caution doesn't happen just with the equals sign.
You can also do an if statement.
So if one then return five and if I run this well there's no function in here less to console.
I've been recording for a long day today right.
So give me a break everybody.
All right.
If I run this five is logged.
Why is that.
Because javascript course is one to equal true.
What if I do zero here.
If I do zero no javascript course is this and says well I want to boolean here.
So I'm going to take your zero and turn that into a false now this sort of type caution there is a lot
of interesting specifics to it.
And as a matter of fact there's a nice little website that shows you some of the comparisons that JavaScript
does with three equals.
That is with no type caution things make sense.
You see that false equals two false and that's it.
You can see that string false only triple equals and returns true with string false again.
But if we do double equals well.
Oh boy.
That's just a mess isn't it.
For example string one is the same as true an array that contains one is also true when it's compared
to string of one.
And there are so many weird little edge cases here.
If you want to play around with this go for it.
But I'd like to stick with triple equals.
You can also see some of the if statements here and some of the F cases that can really be tricky now
if we go to this MDMA page which I will link to in this video we see that we have the double equals
the triple equals.
But then also something called Object dot is that's fairly new to JavaScript and this is an interesting
one that you most likely won't see very often.
But I think it's interesting.
So we're going to talk about it just quickly you see in JavaScript there is a concept of negative zero
and plus zero.
Strange I know.
So if I do negative zero triple equals plus zero and I run I get true but they're technically different
things in JavaScript so I can actually do object dot is
and given the two parameters and run and I get false.
Now why is this useful if we go back to this page we see that object that is works pretty much the same
as the triple equals except for a few cases.
That is the plus and negative 0.
And if we scroll all the way down to this funky little and a n not a no and we can do a whole course
on how weird this not a number is but if I did not a number which represents not in numbers in JavaScript
and I do triple equals not a number I get false but why is that.
This is this should be equal right.
So if we use object that is this turns into true.
Again most likely in your day to day programming life you're never going to encounter this problem.
But I wanted to demonstrate for you how confusing type caution can be and if you're the type of person
that just loves type caution and wants to read all about it and understand all these intricacies I'll
linked to the actual spec that talks about how the equality comparison algorithm works for me if I read
this I'll be a good bedtime reading to make me fall asleep.
If you're interested in it you can have a look.
The main takeaway from here is that well you should use triple equals because type caution in JavaScript
can be really tricky.
By the way as a fun little side note there's a screen capture I took from Netflix watching this great
hilarious documentary and you see that bugs in the code are unavoidable.
Even the mighty Netflix every once in a while has an issue somewhere not a number.
All right.
That's it for now.
I see in the next one by.